Feat: add GitOps doc (#249)
oam-dev/kubevela.io: docs/case-studies/gitops.md

---
title:  GitOps with KubeVela
---

> GitOps is a continuous delivery method that allows developers to automatically deploy applications by changing code in a Git repository. In this section, you will learn how to use KubeVela for GitOps deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitOps is a continuous delivery method that allows developers to automatically deploy applications by changing code in a Git repository. In this section, you will learn how to use KubeVela to do GitOps.
```

> ## Preparation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

> First, prepare a Git Repository with `Application` files that need to be applied, please refer to [KubeVela-GitOps-Demo](https://github.com/FogDong/KubeVela-GitOps-Demo):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, setup a Git Repository with `Application` files that need to be applied, please refer to [KubeVela-GitOps-Demo](https://github.com/FogDong/KubeVela-GitOps-Demo):
```

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1beta1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: first-vela-workflow
  namespace: default
spec:
  components:
  - name: express-server
    type: webservice
    properties:
      image: stefanprodan/podinfo
      port: 9898
    traits:
    - type: ingress
      properties:
        domain: testsvc.example.com
        http:
          /: 9898
  - name: nginx-server
    type: webservice
    properties:
      image: nginx:1.21
      port: 80
```

> Second, apply a secret with your Git username and password in cluster:

Reviewer 2: Can I ignore the second step if the repo is public?

> Second, apply a secret with your Git username and password in cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then create a secret with your Git username and password:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: my-secret
type: kubernetes.io/basic-auth
stringData:
  username: your username
  password: your password
```

> ## Write the Application that can apply automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Apply the Application that can sync with your Git
```

> Apply the `Application` file to the cluster:

Reviewer 2: We have two applications here, one is from the git repo above, and the one as below. Maybe specifying the `application file` a little bit more will help:)

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1beta1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: git-app
spec:
  components:
  - name: gitops
    type: kustomize
    properties:
      repoType: git
      # your git repository url
      url: https://github.com/FogDong/KubeVela-GitOps-Demo
      # your secret name
      secretRef: my-secret
      # the interval time of pull config from repo
      pullInterval: 1m
      git:
        branch: master

>       path: .

Reviewer 2: We normally run `vela show xxx` to guide users how to fill the properties.

BTW, my definition is out-dated?

```
➜  kubevela.io git:(cloud-resource) ✗ vela show kustomize
I0908 14:57:10.474122   91708 request.go:668] Waited for 1.014010181s due to client-side throttling, not priority and fairness, request: GET:https://47.242.209.62:6443/apis/image.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1alpha1?timeout=32s
# Properties
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+----------+---------+
|     NAME     |                                             DESCRIPTION                                              |  TYPE  | REQUIRED | DEFAULT |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+----------+---------+
| path         | Path to the directory containing the kustomization.yaml file, or the set of plain YAMLs a            | string | true     |         |
|              | kustomization.yaml should be generated for.                                                          |        |          |         |
| pullInterval | The interval at which to check for repository updates.                                               | string | true     | 1m      |
| repoUrl      | The repository URL, can be a HTTP/S or SSH address.                                                  | string | true     |         |
| branch       | The Git reference to checkout and monitor for changes, defaults to master branch.                    | string | true     | master  |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+----------+---------+
```

Author: I will update the kustomize in vela show later, thanks for the report

```

Check the `Application` in clusters, we can see that the `git-app` automatically pulls the config from Git Repository and apply the application to the cluster:

```shell
$ kubectl get application

NAME                  COMPONENT        TYPE         PHASE     HEALTHY   STATUS   AGE
first-vela-workflow   express-server   webservice   running   true               1s
git-app               gitops           kustomize    running   true               3s
```

> ## Edit the configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update Application to deploy to more clusters
```

After the `Application` is running, we want to re-apply the app to the `prod` namespace. We can edit the `Application` file in Git Repository:

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1beta1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: first-vela-workflow
  namespace: default
spec:
  components:
  - name: express-server
    type: webservice
    properties:
      image: stefanprodan/podinfo
      port: 9898
    traits:
    - type: ingress
      properties:
        domain: testsvc.example.com
        http:
          /: 9898
  - name: nginx-server
    type: webservice
    properties:
      image: nginx:1.21
      port: 80

  policies:
    - name: my-policy
      type: env-binding
      properties:
        clusterManagementEngine: single-cluster
        envs:
          - name: my-env
            placement:
              namespaceSelector:
                name: prod
  workflow:
    steps:
      - name: multi-env
        type: multi-env
        properties:
          policy: my-policy
          env: my-env
```

> Check the `Application` in clusters, we can see the application has been applied to `prod` namespace after a while:

Reviewer 2: What will happen to the application in `default` namespace?

Author: The application in the `default` namespace won't be modified or recreated, you can see the age of the apps:

```shell
$ kubectl get application -A
NAMESPACE     NAME                  COMPONENT                               TYPE         PHASE     HEALTHY   STATUS   AGE
default       first-vela-workflow   express-server                          webservice   running   true               10m
default       git-app               gitops                                  kustomize    running   true               10m
prod          first-vela-workflow   express-server                          webservice   running   true               8s
```

Reviewer 2: Should the application be deleted? As the user has changed the source code, he/she has changed, or we can say, lost the single-truth-of-source, the application should be deleted.

Author: Rewrite the whole docs, please review the zh version and I'll update en version later.

---
title:  GitOps with KubeVela
---

GitOps is a continuous delivery method that allows developers to automatically deploy applications by changing code in a Git repository. KubeVela can support GitOps as an application delivery system. In this section, you will learn how to use KubeVela to do GitOps.

## Setup

First, setup a Git Repository with `Application` files, some source code and a Dockerfile.

The code is very simple, starting a service and displaying the version in the code. In `Application`, we'll start a `webservice` for the code and add an `Ingress` trait to access.

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1beta1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: first-vela-workflow
  namespace: default
spec:
  components:
    - name: test-server
      type: webservice
      properties:
        # replace the imagepolicy `default:gitops` with your policy later
        image: <your image> # {"$imagepolicy": "default:gitops"}
        port: 8088
      traits:
        - type: ingress
          properties:
            domain: testsvc.example.com
            http:
              /: 8088
```

> We want users to build the image and push it to the image registry after changing the code, so we need to integrate with a CI tool like GitHub Actions or Jenkins to do it. In this example, we use GitHub Actions to build the image. For the code and configuration file, please refer to [Example Repo](https://github.com/oam-dev/kubevela/samples).

Reviewer 3: 代码仓库改一下

## Create the Git secret

After the new image is pushed to the image registry, KubeVela will recognize the new image and update the `Application` file in the Git repository and cluster. Therefore, we need a secret with Git information for KubeVela to commit to the Git repository.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: my-secret
type: kubernetes.io/basic-auth
stringData:
  username: <your username>
  password: <your password>
```

> ## Write the automatic apply file

Reviewer: Create the Application that sync with Git

> After completing the basic configuration above, we can create a new automatic apply file locally and associate the corresponding Git repository and image registry information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing the basic configuration above, we can create an Application file that syncs with the corresponding Git repository and image registry information:
```

      # the path that you want to listen
      path: .
      imageRepository:
        image: <your image>
        # if it's a private image registry, use `kubectl create secret docker-registry` to create the secret
        # secretRef: imagesecret
        filterTags:
          # filter the image tag
          pattern: '^master-[a-f0-9]+-(?P<ts>[0-9]+)'
          extract: '$ts'
        # use the policy to sort the latest image tag and update
        policy:
          numerical:
            order: asc
```

Apply the file to the cluster and check the `Application` in clusters, we can see that the `git-app` automatically pulls the config from Git Repository and apply the application to the cluster:

```shell
$ vela ls

APP                	COMPONENT     	TYPE      	TRAITS 	PHASE  	HEALTHY	STATUS	CREATED-TIME
first-vela-workflow	test-server	    webservice	ingress	running	healthy	      	2021-09-10 11:23:34 +0800 CST
git-app            	gitops        	kustomize 	       	running	healthy	      	2021-09-10 11:23:32 +0800 CST
```

We can `curl` the `Ingress` to see the current version in code:

```shell 
$ curl -H "Host:testsvc.example.com" http://<your-ip>
Version: 0.1.5
```

> ## Modify the code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Modify the code to trigger automatic deployment
```

	})
	if err := http.ListenAndServe(":8088", nil); err != nil {
		println(err.Error())
	}
}
```

Commit the change to the Git Repository, we can see that our CI pipelines has built the image and push it to the image registry.

KubeVela will then listening to the image registry and update the `Application` in Git Repository with the latest image tag. We can see that there is a commit form `kubevelabot`, the commit message is `Update image automatically.`

![alt](../resources/gitops-commit.png)

> Note that the commit from `kubevelabot` will not trigger the pipeline again and since we filter out the commit from KubeVela in CI configuration.
> 
> ```shell
> jobs:
>  publish:
>    if: "!contains(github.event.head_commit.message, 'Update image automatically')"
> ```

Re-check the `Application` in cluster, we can see that the image of the `Application` has been updated after a while. We can `curl` to `Ingress` to see the current version:

```shell 
$ curl -H "Host:testsvc.example.com" http://<your-ip>
Version: 0.1.6
```

The `Version` has been updated successfully! Now we're done with everything from changing the code to automatically applying to the cluster.

> KubeVela gets the latest information from the code repository and the image repository at regular intervals, depending on the interval you specify:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KubeVela polls the latest information from the code and image repo periodically (at an interval that can be customized):
```
